## Compliance API - Ruby client

### Gnip Compliance API

To ensure that the Twitter user's voice is continually respected, Gnip's customers are obligated to maintain compliant data stores... meaning that requests to delete or otherwise alter data are acted on and propagated through the customer's data analysis framework. To enable customers to comply, Gnip provides aa API endpoint from which all compliance data related to a customer's account can be regularly requested. A full description of the API can be found at the [Gnip support site](http://support.gnip.com/apis/compliance_api/).

### So, what does this Compliance API client do?

This app helps automate real-time requests to the Compliance API. This client will implement the recommended practice of querying the API every ten minutes, with a delay of at least 5 minutes between the end of the time interval and the current time. 

It supports several operational modes:

* One-time 'backfill' mode:
   * When a start-time __and__ end-time are provided, the client will manage all Compliance API requests to cover that period.
   * The app will run in an __one-time__ fashion. When those requests are finished, the app exits. 
   * Start-time __and__ end-time parameters can be provided with a configuration file or via the command-line.
   
* 'Realtime' mode: 
   * If no end-tme is provided, the client will start in a 'realtime' mode. 
   * In this mode, the client will make as many 10-minute Compliance API requests it takes to catch up to most recent available ten-minute period (ending at least five minutes ago).
   * Once the Compliance data is caught up, the app continues to run, making Compliance API requests every ten minutes. 
   * Start-time parameter can be provided with a configuration file or via the command-line. 
 
    _Note that if only an end-time is specified, and error will occur._

This Compliance API client writes a 'last time' file in its local directory after every successful Compliance API request. If no 'start-time' is provided when the client starts, it will be set to the timestamp found in the 'last time' file. If the client starts with no start-time parameters, and the 'last time' file is not found, the client will set the 'start-time' to the current time, wait ten minutes, and begin making Compliance API requests.  A 'last time' file is a simple (UTF-8) text file that contains a ```YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM``` timestamp. 

Currently, Compliance API output can be written to a 'outbox' directory. This directory can be specified in the client configuration file or via the command-line.

###Getting started

Have access to Compliance API. This can be tested with a simple cURL command:

```
   curl -v --compressed -u<USER_NAME> \
    "https://compliance.gnip.com:443/accounts/<ACCOUNT_NAME>/publishers/twitter \
    ?fromDate=<YYYYMMDDHHMM>&toDate=<YYYYMMDDHHMM>"
```

Have the following files in a directory of your choice:

* compliance_api.rb: the 'main' client program that is excuted with various options (see below).
* pt_restful.rb: a common-code HTTP helper class currently based on the standard Ruby net/https gem.
* pt_logging: a common-code Logger class currently based on the Ruby 'logging' gem.
* example_config.yaml: Compliance Client configuration file.

###Client Configuration

As discussed above, start and end time parameters determine the execution behavior of the client application. More information on their use, and the variety of formats supported for specifying timestamps, is included in the next section.



Here are some additional configuration details:

  * Account information:
  * Product details:
  * Application options:
      * __query_length_in_seconds__: Duration of the Compliance API request, in seconds. The maximum period per request is 10 minutes. Defaults to 600.
      * __out_box__: Directory where Compliance datafiles are written. Defaults to ```./data```. Specified directory is created if neccessary.
      * __ignore_no_results_response__: When set to ```true``` no file is written if there are no Compliance events in API response. When set to false, a file is created even if no events occured during the requested period. Defaults to ```true```.

  * Logging. This Compliance API client includes basic logging support (using the [logging](https://github.com/TwP/logging) Ruby gem), with the following options.

    * __log_file_path__: The path and file name to contain client log entries. Default to ```./compliance_api.log```.
    * __warn_level__: Logging level: debug, info, warn, critical.
    * __size__: The maximum size of the log file, in megabytes (MB). Default is 10 MB.
    * __keep__: The number of rolling log files to maintain. Default is 2.

See [HERE] for an example Compliance API client configuration file.

```
account:
  account_name: <ACCOUNT_NAME>
  user_name: <USER_NAME>
  password_encoded: <ENC0D3d_Pas5W0rd>  #At least some resemblance of security. Generated by "base64" Ruby Gem.
  #password: <PASSWORD>  #Use this is you want to use plain text, and comment out the encoded entry above.

product:
  #These (optional) GET parameters are used to dial-in to a specific product/stream.
  product: track  #track/decahose/search/rehydration/historical
  stream_type: track #track/replay/usertrack/geotrack/decahose/search/rehydration/historical
  label: dev

app:
 start_time: 201501010000 #Timestamp or integer indicating minutes, or 'duration' string (12h, 14d), or file
 #end_time: 201501010010
 sleep_time_in_seconds: 1800 #play with "run once a hour" use-case
 #query_length_in_seconds: 600 #seconds (10-minute max currently). 
 storage: files #options: files, standard_out, database (not implemented yet) --> Store activities in local files, in database. or print to system out?
 out_box: ./data
 compressed_files: true #Data files are delivered in gzipped format, set this to false to uncompress them.

logging:
  log_file_path: ./compliance_api.log
  size: 10 #MB
  keep: 2
```


###Command-line options

Three optional command-line parameters can be provided:

```
Usage: compliance_api [options]
    -c, --config CONFIG              Configuration file (including path) that provides account and download settings.
                                         Config files include username, password, account name and stream label/name.
    -s, --start_time START           UTC timestamp for beginning of Search period.
                                           Specified as YYYYMMDDHHMM, "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM", YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.000Z or use ##d, ##h or ##m. If set to 'file', a local 'start_time.dat' file is used to track Compliance API calls.
    -e, --end_time END               UTC timestamp for ending of Search period.
                                        Specified as YYYYMMDDHHMM, "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM", YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.000Z or use ##d, ##h or ##m.
    -o, --outbox OUTBOX              Optional. Triggers the generation of files and where to write them.
    -h, --help                       Display this screen.

```

##Specifying Start and End Times

* Search start-and end-time can be specified in several ways: 
    * standard PowerTrack timestamps (YYYYMMDDHHMM).
    * ISO 8061/Twitter timestamps (2013-11-15T17:16:42.000Z), as "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM".
    * With simple notation indicating the number of minutes (30m), hours (12h) and days (14d).

####Important notes
* Specifying both a start-time __and__ end-time will run the client in a __one-time__ 'backfill' mode. The client will manage all Compliance API requests to cover that period, then exit. 
* Specifying only a start-time will run the client app in a 'realtime' mode. The app continues to run, making Compliance API requests every ten minutes. 
* If no start-time is provided, the app will use a 'last time' file mechanism to determine its start-time. If no 'last time' file is found, the app will wait ten minutes and then begin making Compliance API requests every ten minutes.
* If only an end-time is provided, an error will be thrown.

##Example Usage

Configuration and rule details can be specified by passing in files or specifying on the command-line, or a combination of both.  Here are some quick example:
  * Using configuration and rules files, requesting 30 days: $ruby search_api.rb -c "./myConfig.yaml" -r "./myRules.json"
  * Using configuration and rules in files, requesting last 7 days: $ruby search_api.rb -c "./myConfig.yaml" -r "./myRules.json" -s 7d
  * Specifying everything on the command-line: $ruby search_api.rb -u me@there.com -p password -a http://search.gnip.com/accounts/jim/search/prod.json -r "profile_region:colorado snow" -s 7d 



